GLRI notes

2015 next steps:

Nov 2015

Updated precip for SW1/East River and processed new .RData files for All (not split, frozen and non), frozen, split, base (not split, not frozen, not estimated)
for this site, cut off pre-BMP at November 1st, 2014
sent Matt new pics
Need to get EI and add in snow to regressions
Then run and get Dale/Steve agreement/approval before moving on to other sites/states


GLRI EoF

Current regressions for East River look good, want to refine and finalize, then move on to other sites. Using all storm events split out (not grouped), running all together, all non-estimated and non-frozen and all non-estimated and frozen. Rainmaker interval of 1 hour gets the storms. Soil moisture from NWIS wasn't that great, plus isn't always available, so not using. Maybe still want to look into snowmelt, snow depth, other NOAA data. Maybe temperature? 

* Fix erosivity calculation to match old one, and also to run faster. Then add to regressions.
* Finalize regressions for East River, streamline process
* Work on training for other offices on regressions, sample splitting
* Start pulling data and running regressions for other sites
* Start writing up work
* Add ability to us multi-gages/polygons for a edge of field site, like the old program
* run regressions for responses other than suspended sediment and phosphorus, nitrogen and maybe others
* Look at adding calculation of loads (in spreadsheet) into R
* baseflow separation? using HISEP output? Or add in HISEP?
* deal with missing data (alternate staid estimates, other) and censored data (1/2 non-detect, other?)
* other possible forcing factors (temperature, manure application, snow, etc)

refinement/finishing of surrogate regressions workflow, run regressions for many sites and quantify possibility of change detection
look at adding an element of monte carlo (talk to John)
Todd would like to maybe examine strength of regression and percentage change necessary for detection: ie maybe this will only work for sites with very good regressions that make drastic changes


Extra - move GCLAS to R for use in computing loads in stream sites? 


GLRI
have events defined
forcing factors - rainfall volume, timing, intensity, others (soil moisture, manure application, etc)
response - phosphorus and nitrogen loads
have field, tile and stream sites
//projects/nonpoint/glri/edge of field/saginaw, blanchard, upper east
eventually will want to handle missing data (alternate staid estimates, other) and censored data (1/2 non-detect, other)
may eventually want to do some baseflow separation - maybe using pre and post-event flow and just draw a straight line? in reality base flow goes up some during events
HISEP - fortran program Laura will call from R to calculate baseflow
RRainmaker - will eventually want to add ability to use multi-rain gages/polygons for one staid, like in old program
add to rainmaker ability to aggregate for a storm event, like we did for Matt's storms that span rainmaker events, also could remove events that don't match up with precip (snowmelt, dam release, other)
	steve's qwcompos function for aggregating multiple samples during one storm does something similar
snowpack and volume of water - get NOAA files w/ snow depth and water content (%), depth*content after - depth*content before gives contribution. also need to account for depth added during event
JF5 - 434250090461401
JF3 - 434246090465801
JF6 - 434425090462401